#summary - Frequently asked questions.
#labels Phase-Support,Featured

= Introduction =

Most questions will be answered in the discussion group.
* http://groups.google.com/group/mmm-devel


= F.A.Q =

=== How many IP addresses do I need? ===

You will need one for each MySQL server and one for each role. 
 * 2(N)+1 where N is the number of servers.
 *For a simple two server master master cluster you will need 5.
   * server 1
   * server 2
   * writer role
   * reader role 1
   * reader role 2
 * For a larger four machine cluster you would need 9.
   * server 1
   * server 2
   * server 3
   * server 4
   * writer role
   * reader role 1
   * reader role 2
   * reader role 3
   * reader role 4


=== How is MMM different from an LVS solution for managing MySQL clusters? ===

MMM does not any balancing between mysql servers it just keeps system
alive by monitoring all servers in cluster and moving roles when some
server dies. So I think we should say not "LVS vs MMM", but "LVS +
MMM".


=== How is MMM checking the MySQL servers? ===

MMM perform following checks for every server:
  # IP connectivity (fping)
  # MySQL connectivity (mysql connect and SELECT NOW())
  # MySQL IO and SQL threads status (SHOW SLAVE STATUS)
  # MySQL replication backlog - seconds behind master (SHOW SLAVE STATUS)

In addition to these checks MMM manages read-only mode on the server
to be sure that slaves could not process writes and only active master
could.


=== How do I configure the IP addresses ? ===

You just need to configure the IP address, for each computer, specified at your Cluster Hosts Addresses section on your Configuration File. As soon as MMM Agent start and communicate with MMM Monitor, it will setup the additional IPs for the roles. 

Using [http://code.google.com/p/mysql-master-master/wiki/ConfigurationExamples Configuration Example] as reference, you will ONLY need to setup IPs 192.168.1.8 at master 1 and 192.168.1.9 at master2.

Using [http://code.google.com/p/mysql-master-master/wiki/ConfigurationExamples Configuration Example] as reference you will write to IP 192.168.1.200 and read from 192.168.1.100, 192.168.1.101.

If master1 fails MMM Monitor will move IP address 192.168.1.200 to master2 automatically.


=== What MySQL privileges needed for monitoring user (in mmm_mon.conf)? ===

This user account would be used for server monitoring by following checks:
  # mysql - uses SELECT NOW() which is always available
  # rep_threads - uses SHOW MASTER STATUS, which requires REPLICATION CLIENT privilege
  # rep_backlog - the same - REPLICATION CLIENT

So, for monitoring account you'll need *REPLICATION CLIENT* privilege.


=== What MySQL privileges needed for agent user (in mmm_agent.conf)? ===

This account would be used to manage servers in cluster so it needs SUPER privileges.



